There also are more things you can set up of course.
One thing I want to dive into are these over the air updates though which you control with the updates
key in the app Chase and fall.
Now that's a neat feature which means that people running your app on their device no matter if it's
just running in the actual client because these scans such a barcode which as mentioned isn't too useful
or if they really downloaded it from the app stores.
As long as you build your app in the managed expert workflow you get the over the air update functionality
built in and that means that if you change something in your code let's say here on this screen we change
something we change some titles some functionality or we even add a brand new native module.
No matter what you do whenever you publish does update with the expo published command all your users
even if they installed the app from the app stores will get this update in their app the next time they
open the app.
And that's important you can configure the functionality here in the updates key again in the official
docs to learn more about this update key and what you can set there what you can set.
For example is if it's generally enabled which by default it is.
And with this fallback to cash time out thing you can configure how long the app when users launch it
on their device should check for updates and try to load them before it displays the recent available
version by setting this to sero you're saying whenever the app launches it immediately displays what
it has it looks for updates behind the scenes and for the next launch it might then take them into account
but it doesn't try to look for updates and download them before actually loading the app.
Now you could change this to let's say five seconds.
This is a millisecond values of five thousand is five thousand milliseconds which is five seconds.
This would mean that when people launched the app they will see the launch screen for up to five seconds
which is of course quite long because after loading everything else expo or your app tries to look for
it updated if it finds an app that it tries to download it and take it into account.
That might be done in five seconds it might be done faster in which case you are app will also launch
faster but if it takes longer than five second standard we'll continue with the updating but not immediately
loaded but instead load the most recent version that is available now it's of course up to you what
you prefer.
This approach makes sure that users have the fastest possible startup experience but they only get your
updated code the next time the app is launched.
This approach or setting this to even higher value like 10 seconds means dead users get newer versions
more frequently or quicker because they get it on the next app launch already.
But the downside is that the app launch might take a bit longer which is maybe not what you want.
So it really depends on which type of app you're building and which type of users you're targeting what
you want to set there.
If it's a business app let's say which you distribute to your employees which needs to be updated all
the time and where the user experience is not that important.
You might want to take a value like 10 seconds here.
If it's an app you share with normal end users around the world you might want to go for a faster start
up time to provide a good user experience and sacrifice update speed for that.
So users would then only get the update on the next launch after this launch.
With all of that out of the way let's actually have a look at all of this and also at is over the air
update feature.
I changed a couple of settings here and therefore what I'll now do is I'll run Expo publish again.
Still that's the command which will not get it in the app stores but which will chair it.
Here on this expo page so to say so I run this command and we could have still optimized our assets
with Expo optimize.
But since we don't really have images included in the app other than the icons here which are generated
and optimized by Expo anyways this shouldn't be a problem.
So I can just run it like this and wait for this to complete and then I will test this on an Android
device because there the advantage of course is that we can use this barcode here.
So now once this is finished the cool thing is will immediately have this new app available by scanning
this barcode and there after I'll show you how we can get over the air updates without even scanning
the app barcode again because that's the idea we get any updates without scanning again.
It's pushed to our app the next time we launched the app so let's wait for it is published process to
finish and you are Ellis still the same as before because I haven't changed anything about my slug here
which is part of the duet L or anything else.
So now here's the expo app on my android device where I can now scanned as barcode and therefore now
the app launches here on Android you see I got the splash screen got the app running here and I can
of course also use it for example I can take an image here so that all works the way it should work
on my device here.
And now let me show you this over the air updating functionality.
See that ad plays tightly here at the top.
Now let's change that in our code.
So let's go to the code here.
And on the screen here in the new place a screen where we set this title.
Let's change this to add new place.
It's a tiny change but still.
So now if run Expo publish again this app will be bundled up and will be published too.
While the expo service again.
So let's wait for this process to finish and it's done.
And now let me show you this live updating.
I still have the app running here.
So of course this does not change whilst the EPA's running so of course here we still have the old title.
But now let's say it was a wait quite a time.
I closed this year and now I relaunched the app.
If I now go to the new places scream I still see the old to old title.
No that makes sense if you think about the updating strategy we used.
I made sure that the app launches as quick as possible and downloads a new update behind the scenes.
So that's what happened.
Now this was the first relaunch of the app on my device after updating it.
So let's say I'm again away quite some time and I relaunched it again by the way here you can see the
adaptive icon in action.
Now if you go through that screen you'll see add new place as a text because now it does this the second
launch after the update in the first launch.
We downloaded the update and installed it so to say in the second launch we we're using it.
Now the app on the device technically didn't change just what's in there changed our javascript coach
changed and since we have this extra wrapper this means that Expo can take this into account and use
this new code.
And this will also work if you publish your app to the app stores because they're whilst you will build
a standalone app and people won't need the expo client you will still include that Expo client app into
your standalone app.
As I mentioned earlier.
So your standalone app kind of has the Ethan Expo wrapper the expo client built in and wrapped around
your app.
That's why over the air updates will even work there.
And speaking of that we now test this a lot.
We tested this all with just Expo and with scanning the barcode.
Now let's dive into how we can really build this app and published his app for the app stores.